Hey guys, welcome back to the course. So, in this lecture, we're going to talk about how do we take our assumption
list and identify which of them are the really risky ones
and which ones are not as risky.
Now, the reason why we do this is because it's a function of
being lean and it's a function of running an MVP experiment.
Now, remember, it's all about mitigating risk and saving resources.
So, if we have a lot of factors that have to be true in order
for our product or feature to be successful,
it makes sense to focus first on the ones that could
potentially sink the ship and make the entire thing
unviable, versus some of the less risky things
that are not really a big deal.
You don't want to get into a situation where you spent
a lot of time validating assumptions that were
very, very small and unrisky, only to come up to, let's say,
your sixth experiment, where you test a risky one, and you fail
miserably and you completely scrap the project.
That's going to happen all the time, but you wasted
so many resources that you didn't have to waste
had you just started the opposite direction with the riskiest one first.
In this section, we're going
to come up with an MVP experiment structure that's going to
target as many of the riskiest ones as we can,
but we first have got to figure out which ones are risky.
So, let's look at the template of examples that we used before.
Number one was the assumption that our customer has X, Y, Z problem, number two is that we assume our customer
cares about whatever we think they care about,
number three, we're assuming that the solution we're
about to create is valuable enough to the user or
potential user for them to either pay you or give you
their email address, or some form of information.
And the last one on the template was that we assume
that there are no satisfactory substitutes, meaning
that there's no other way of doing this that people find to be okay.
So now, just out of these examples,
let's say you just had a theoretical product idea. Which
of these four do you think is probably the biggest
deal, as in if one of these things turned out
to be false, we assume this and it's not true,
which of them is probably going to be the biggest deal,
which one could potentially just blow up and
make all the other ones not matter?
So let's just start from the bottom - no satisfactory substitutions.
Well, there are plenty of products and plenty of services
out there that competed with satisfactory substitutions,
people didn't even realize they had a problem with it until someone popped up and said, "Hey, here's a better way of doing it."
People were pretty satisfied with their feature phones.
I mean, they had a lot of issues, but for the most part
if you asked someone who had a feature phone, you
know, before 2006, they'd probably say,
"Yeah, I'm pretty satisfied with it."
And that was before they came out with the iPhone.
So people can typically get dislodged from substitutions
if you show them there's a better way on some dimension.
Number three - they will pay for it or sign up for it.
Well, that's a problem if they won't, because it's an issue for your business model, but is it absolutely a game changer, something
that, you know, just drops the curtain and you can't possibly go forward?
Well, no, not really, because there's plenty of other ways
of monetizing or growing a successful product
that don't rely on the customer paying you directly.
For instance, you can work with ads.
Ads don't require any sign up and they
don't require anyone paying you any money.
It might not be ideal, but it's still a viable avenue.
Number two - [...] matters to my customers.
You know, if you're trying to build something, let's say,
that is super fast, and you find out that people
don't really care how fast it is,
let's say we were, you know, Domino's Pizza, and we came out
with the 30 minutes or less delivery strategy
and we found out that no one cares,
it doesn't matter if they get it in 30 minutes,
or two hours, or three hours,
now, would it be a game-ender?
Well, no, but it would be a pretty significant setback.
The thing is that we have a thing called marketing
and the job of marketing is to convince people that
they care about things they didn't previously care about.
So it's very plausible that Domino's could just run an ad
convincing people that you want pizza and that
pizza is better if you eat it sooner.
Before I bought a 1080p HD TV, if you would have asked me,
"Do you care about the resolution of your TV?" I'd say,
"What are you talking about? What is resolution?"
But after I bought one and I saw what they could do,
yeah, all of a sudden I started caring, because that was really crisp.
This was actually shot in 1080p, not 4K, and you can
thank us for that, because if it was shot in 4K,
you wouldn't be paying attention, you'd be
lost in every contour and bump on my face.
The last one is "My customer has X, Y, Z problem."
That actually is a big, big deal. If we're trying to build something
that solves a problem, and that problem doesn't exist,
we are building a solution in search of a problem,
and that never goes well.
So I would actually say the lack of a problem in this scenario
is by far the riskiest, and, as a product
manager, what I would do then is try to design my MVP experiment to target that one. After I proved that one to be true,
I would then move on to the next riskiest, which is
probably number two, and then the next one, which is
probably number four, and then the next one, which is
probably number three. In the next lecture, we're going
to find the riskiest assumption of our example, Zirx.
You guys can skip this one if you want.
Totally not mandatory, but if you do care, watch it,
otherwise I'll see you in the next, next lecture.